% FAQ

### What is it?

A WYSIWYG mathematical expression editor with output that is suited to computer as well as human use, and that is easier than raw LaTeX.

### Who is it for?

Anyone who wants math input that is easy for novices to enter (such as in an educational context) and/or that is readable by computers (such as in a web based calculator application).

Specifically, the needs of two target audiences have guided the development to date:

* Students learning mathematics online: It is intended make it easy both for students to input and for software to validate mathematical expressions.  The input interface should be simpler than LaTeX, faster than clicking through menus of symbol options, and the results should be parseable so that inputs can be evaluated.
  
* Research mathematicians: It should be easier for researchers to search for mathematics.  More computer-readable storage for mathematical expressions may allow search engines of the future to discern whether "H^2" is "H squared" or "degree-2 cohomology".  This project aims to make entering both of these interpretations easier than LaTeX would, while also including the information needed to distinguish them.
  

 
### How is it different from other equation editors?

The output is semantically tagged.  Now, you can distinguish whether dy/dx means "derivative of y with respect to x" or "quotient of the product d times y by the product d times x".

Also, in its default configuration it requires neither backslashes nor use of the mouse to enter expressions.

### Why can't it output to Maple/SymPy/Sage/[My favourite language]?

The simple answer is that you could make it do so.

The much better answer is that, in most cases, you shouldn't. 

Specifically, if you want to take user input and have the editor output it as, say, SymPy for processing on the server side, then this has been intentionally made difficult since such a setup almost always permits a malicious (or merely curious) user to easily take over the server.  Removing builtins will not save you, chroot will not save you, and containers will also probably not save you.  If the significance of `().__class__.__base__.__subclasses__()` is lost on you, you definitely shouldn't do this.  Even if you understand why that is relevant, you still most likely should not do this.

If you want to process your mathematical expressions
server-side, our advice is that you consume them as data, (for
example via the "ast" syntax tree output) and evaluate them
with the usual recursive process.  Convenience methods exist
in the GuppyDoc class for doing this in Javascript.

### Can I make the cursor orange?

Yes.  Many elements are tagged with CSS classes so that you can write CSS to customise the editor's appearance.  !important.

### What are the future plans for this editor?

See the [roadmap](./roadmap.html).

### Is it secure?

There are two threat models we have explicitly designed
against:

* XSS: In anticipation of the use-case where user input is displayed
  to other users, we assume XML documents generated by the editor may
  be rendered by the editor for other users.  All XML documents
  handled by the editor are parsed by DOMParser only and are never
  added to the root document.
  
* NPM-based attacks: Many components of modern web apps are deployed
  using npm install, which will recursively fetch all the component's
  dependencies.  Rather than specify dependencies and hope that when
  these are resolved by NPM at install time they are not compromised,
  we have audited our dependencies and packaged them with our
  releases.


### Is it mobile friendly?

It comes with an on-screen keyboard module that can be used to
input from a phone or tablet.  Try it
out [here](/site/examples/osk).

### Can it do linear algebra?

Yes!  Type "mat" for a matrix, and "vec" for a vector

### Why XML?

Because it is easy to get out of.  When the day comes that a
nicer format comes along that can be as easily and
declaratively queried and transformed, it will be a simple
matter to XSLT any lingering XML specimens into the new hot
sauce.

### Why Javascript?

Because it was there.

### Why "guppy"?

I truly don't remember.  /usr/share/dict/words may have played a role.

### It doesn't work on my browser!

I've tested it on recent versions of Firefox and Chrome and some
version of Safari.  Also, on IE11.  It didn't work on IE11.

### I miss backslashes!

Fine.  Have it your way.  They are included, but optional, with a
configuration option to make them required if you choose.

### Is it Web 3.0 compliant?

The planned port to HTML9 Responsive Boilerstrap JS is planned.
